rocket science is simple it starts off
with recognition that in the universe
there are some things that never change
once this thing is momentum the product
of mass and velocity of an object
consider this
imagine you are a cart on wheels you
have lots of bricks in your cart then
you start throwing bricks out the cart
one brick at a time you can throw big
breaks you can throw a small bricks you
can throw them fast and throw them slow
but here's the thing you are gonna give
momentum to the bricks going this way
and that means that you're gonna get the
exact opposite momentum in the other way
because one time never changes a rocket
like the one that took people to the
moon or the Space Shuttle it's just like
that the only question is what are you
gonna throw out and how do you have the
energy to throw it out in a chemical
rocket what you throw out is a burnt
mixture of fuel and oxygen and how you
get the energy to throw it out comes
from the chemical bonds think of atoms
as being balls that are kind of a 3d
thought elastic Springs when you cut
that elastic these balls are gonna fly
around all over the place and that's
what we call this temperature so when
you cut those bonds the whole gas heats
up and the heated gas expands so this is
what you see in your car engine disease
is heinous - and that's what you see in
a bomb a rocket is just like a bomb but
with a hole in the back the only job of
a rocket designer is to design the right
hole so how are you gonna design a hole
for this expanding gas the expanding gas
shoots out the back like a jet now this
jet for a rocket engine can be as fast
as two or three months per second or
10,000 miles an hour that's fast but
that's not fast enough if we want to go
to destinations like Mars we need
rockets that shoot things out the back
much much faster and that brings us to
the need for plasma rockets